admin/add-custom-reader-addition-docs (#305)
AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

        git checkout -b {your_development_type}/short-description

    Ex: feature/read-tiff-files or bugfix/handle-file-not-found<br>
    Now you can make your changes locally.

7.  When you're done making changes, check that your changes pass linting and
    tests, including testing other Python versions with make (!! Important !!):

        make build

    If you have any AWS credentials configured and would like to run the full
    remote IO test suite:

        make build-with-remote

8.  Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub:

        git add .
        git commit -m "Resolves gh-###. Your detailed description of your changes."
        git push origin {your_development_type}/short-description

9.  Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.

## Adding a New Custom Reader

### Basics

AICSImageIO is broken into the `Reader` base class and the `AICSImage` higher
level "standardization" class. `Reader` classes should always provide
access in some sense to the "raw" data. The `AICSImage` class wraps the
`Reader` classes to then select and transform the "raw" data into our
AICS / near-OME standard model.

### Reader Class Implementation

> The `Reader` base class can largely be thought of as a wrapper around
> `xarray` due to how we largely store most or all data and metadata on

Reviewer: Nit: I think these words are a bit redundant, wording
```suggestion
The `Reader` base class can be thought of as a wrapper around
`xarray` since we store most or all data and metadata on
```

`xarray.DataArray` objects.
Because of this, it may be useful to read the
[xarray documentation](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/).

The `Reader` base class in full can be found
[here](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/readers/reader.py).

New `Reader` classes are **required** to implement:

-   `_is_supported_image`: a function to check if the custom `Reader` class
    _can_ read the provided object (file, array, etc.)
-   `scenes`: a property which returns the Tuple of all scene names
    (or in OME terms, "images" or "series").
-   `_read_delayed`: a function which returns an `xarray.DataArray` object
    which is backed by a delayed `dask.array.Array`.
-   `_read_immediate`: a function which returns an `xarray.DataArray` object
    which is backed by an in-memory `numpy.ndarray`.

New `Reader` classes can **optionally** implement:

-   `_get_stitched_dask_mosaic`: otherwises raises `NotImplementedError`
-   `_get_stitched_mosaic`: otherwises raises `NotImplementedError`
-   `get_mosaic_tile_position`: otherwises raises `NotImplementedError`
-   `ome_metadata`: otherwises raises `NotImplementedError`

> -   `physical_pixel_sizes`: default returns `(None, None, None)`

Reviewer: Do you mind providing descriptions for these like you do for the required attributes above? Or maybe bring the "please see docstrings" note above this list?

Please see `Reader` code for docstrings on each of these
optional functions or properties.

After the **required** functions and properties have been implemented,
`Reader` class functions like `get_image_data` and properties like `channel_names`

> are then handled for you because the `Reader` base class has built-in functions to

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
are then handled for you; the `Reader` base class has built-in functions to
```

operate against the provided / stored xarray objects.

### Custom Dependencies

If your `Reader` requires custom dependencies, add the custom dependencies

> to our [format_libs lookup in setup.py](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/setup.py#L26).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to our [`format_libs` lookup in `setup.py`](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/setup.py#L26).
```

Author: Can't do backticks in links... i.e. ```[`something`]```, it breaks the doc renderer :slightly_frowning_face:

Reviewer: Ah drat :disappointed: that works on GitHub's markdown renderer :woman_shrugging:

> If you want your `Reader` to be used as a part of `AICSImage`
> object attempted reader resolution (i.e. the `AICSImage` object iterates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want your `Reader` to be used as a part of the `AICSImage`
object's attempted reader resolution (i.e. the `AICSImage` object iterates
```

through `Reader` objects until a `Reader` can read the provided object),
add your file format(s) + reader module path to our

> [FORMAT_IMPLEMENTATIONS lookup](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/formats.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`FORMAT_IMPLEMENTATIONS` lookup](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/formats.py).
```

**Note:** the order of the `FORMAT_IMPLEMENTATIONS` lookup matters
--if `TiffReader` was put before `OmeTiffReader`,
`OmeTiffReader` would never be reached.

> For an example of a `Reader` that requires custom dependencies, see our `CziReader`.
> See how we handle [Reader dependency lookup during import of the module](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/readers/czi_reader.py#L24).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example of a `Reader` that requires custom dependencies, see our `CziReader` (specifically 
[Reader dependency lookup during import of the module](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/readers/czi_reader.py#L24)).
```

### Testing

We provide standard functions for testing and validating data and metadata
as well as running serialization and deserialization and other checks for you.
These are:

-   [run_image_container_checks](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/tests/image_container_test_utils.py#L46)
    for single-scene
-   [run_multi_scene_image_read_checks](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/tests/image_container_test_utils.py#L179)
    for multi-scene.

See our [OmeTiffReader Tests](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/aicsimageio/tests/readers/test_ome_tiff_reader.py)
for an example parametrized usage of these standard testing functions.

Outside of using these standard testing functions, you should feel free to
add additional testing for you `Reader` class when needed or

> for cases that you feel we should ensure support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for cases that you feel we should support.
```

### Optional Reader Benchmarking

If you want to benchmark your `Reader` over the course of `aicsimageio` patches,
add a `{YourReader}Suite` class to our
[benchmark_image_containers file](https://github.com/AllenCellModeling/aicsimageio/blob/main/benchmarks/benchmark_image_containers.py#L167).

**Note:** You may want to specifically choose files larger than 100MB to

> benchmark against to make random IO spikes on the GitHub Action runner
> to be considered neglible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
benchmark against to make random IO spikes on the GitHub Action runner negligible.
```
